(CNN)Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin insisted Monday that Russia was failing in its Ukraine incursion, with Austin explicitly saying that the US wants to see Russia's military capabilities weakened.
The two top US officials, speaking at a news conference at an undisclosed location in Poland near the Ukrainian border, made the comments following a trip to Kyiv, where they met with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to pledge US support in the war and announce that US diplomats would be returning to Ukraine.
"We want to see Russia weakened to the degree that it can't do the kinds of things that it has done in invading Ukraine," Austin said at the news conference. "So it has already lost a lot of military capability. And a lot of its troops, quite frankly. And we want to see them not have the capability to very quickly reproduce that capability."

Blinken told reporters that Russian attempts to "subjugate Ukraine and take its independence" has "failed."

"Russia has sought as its principal aim to totally subjugate Ukraine, to take away its sovereignty, to take away its independence -- that has failed. It has sought to assert the power of its military and its economy. We, of course, are seeing just the opposite, a military that is dramatically underperforming and an economy ... as a result of sanctions that is in shambles," Blinken said.
"We don't know how the rest of this war will unfold, but we do know that a sovereign independent Ukraine will be around a lot longer than Vladimir Putin is on the scene," he said.
The remarks are the latest in a series of public comments by US leaders challenging Putin's longevity as Russia's President and as the war in Ukraine has shifted to a new phrase in the east. US President Joe Biden and the White House have said the US is not officially calling for regime change and officials have also predicted a potentially drawn-out conflict.

Austin's comments also seem to represent a further extension of US goals, building on past comments from Blinken and other officials about Moscow's status at the end of the war.
Blinken last week said in a statement that the US' "continued efforts to ratchet up pressure on Putin's crumbling economy together will help weaken the Russian Government's position and further isolate them from the world until Russia ends its unprovoked and unjustified war on Ukraine."
Asked about the defense secretary's comments, a National Security Council spokesperson said the US wants Ukraine to win and "that's why we're doing everything we can to help Ukraine defend its sovereignty and territorial integrity, and to strengthen the Ukrainians' hands on the battlefield and at the negotiating table."
A senior State Department official told the traveling press Monday that such negotiations are "evolving," noting that "Russia's hand has been weakened as a result of these first two months, Ukraine's hand has been strengthened, that effects the positions that there would be in any negotiation," but "part of the problem is as best we can tell there is no effective negotiation going on right now."
US diplomats to return to Ukraine.
